Section 1: The city of New York has collected data on every automobile collision in city limits since mid-2012. Collisions are broken down by borough, zip code, latitude/longitude, and street name. Each entry describes injuries/deaths, collision causes, and vehicle types involved. The data can be downloaded from: https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Public-Safety/NYPD-Motor-Vehicle-Collisions/h9gi-nx95 Download the "NYPD Motor Vehicle Collisions" dataset in .csv format. The download link can be found under the "Export" tab. Information on the variables can be found on this page, as well, along with a preview of the rows of the dataset. For all questions, do not use data occurring after December 31, 2018.

Q-1: What is the total number of persons injured in the dataset (up to December 31, 2018?)

Q-2: What proportion of all collisions in 2016 occurred in Brooklyn? Only consider entries with a non-null value for BOROUGH.

Q-3: What proportion of collisions in 2016 resulted in injury or death of a cyclist?

Q-4: For each borough, compute the number of accidents per capita involving alcohol in 2017. Report the highest rate among the 5 boroughs. Use populations as given by https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demographics_of_New_York_City.

Q-5: Obtain the number of vehicles involved in each collision in 2016. Group the collisions by zip code and compute the sum of all vehicles involved in collisions in each zip code, then report the maximum of these values.

Q-6: Consider the total number of collisions each year from 2013-2018. Is there an apparent trend? Fit a linear regression for the number of collisions per year and report its slope.

Q-7: Do winter driving conditions lead to more multi-car collisions? Compute the rate of multi car collisions as the proportion of the number of collisions involving 3 or more cars to the total number of collisions for each month of 2017. Calculate the chi-square test statistic for testing whether a collision is more likely to involve 3 or more cars in January than in May.

Q-8: We can use collision locations to estimate the areas of the zip code regions. Represent each as an ellipse with semi-axes given by a single standard deviation of the longitude and latitude. For collisions in 2017, estimate the number of collisions per square kilometer of each zip code region. Considering zipcodes with at least 1000 collisions, report the greatest value for collisions per square kilometer. Note: Some entries may have invalid or incorrect (latitude, longitude) coordinates. Drop any values that are invalid or seem unreasonable for New York City.
